Update `consul-k8s` CLI docs with Envoy Debugging (#13860)
hashicorp/consul: website/content/docs/k8s/k8s-cli.mdx

$ consul-k8s proxy list <OPTIONS>
```

| Flag                                 | Description                                           | Default                                                                                                                |
| ------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| <nobr>`-all-namespaces`, `-A`</nobr> | `Boolean` List pods in all Kubernetes namespaces.     | `false`                                                                                                                |
| <nobr>`-namespace`, `-n`</nobr>      | `String` The Kubernetes namespace to list proxies in. | Current [kubeconfig](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/organize-cluster-access-kubeconfig/) namespace. |

Refer to the [Global Options](#global-options) for additional options that you can use
when installing Consul on Kubernetes.

This command will list proxies alongside their `Type`. Types of proxies include:

- `Sidecar`: these will be the majority of pods in the cluster. They run the

>   proxy in a sidecar pattern to network the pod as a service in the mesh.

Author: Yours is clearer.

- `Terminating Gateway`: these pods run a proxy to control connections to
  external services. Read more about [terminating gateways](/docs/k8s/connect/terminating-gateways).
- `Mesh Gateway`: these pods run a proxy to manage connections between
  Consul clusters connected using mesh federation. Read more about [Consul Mesh Federation](/docs/k8s/installation/multi-cluster/kubernetes).

#### Example Commands

Display all pods in the current Kubernetes namespace which run proxies managed
by Consul.

```shell-session
$ consul-k8s proxy list
```

```
Namespace: default

Name                     	Type
backend-658b679b45-d5xlb 	Sidecar
client-767ccfc8f9-6f6gx  	Sidecar
client-767ccfc8f9-f8nsn  	Sidecar
client-767ccfc8f9-ggrtx  	Sidecar
frontend-676564547c-v2mfq	Sidecar
```

Display all pods in the `consul` Kubernetes namespace which run proxies managed
by Consul.

```shell-session
$ consul-k8s proxy list -n consul
```

```
Namespace: consul

Name                                   	Type
consul-ingress-gateway-6fb5544485-br6fl	Ingress Gateway
consul-ingress-gateway-6fb5544485-m54sp	Ingress Gateway
```

> Display all pods across all namespaces which run proxies managed by Consul.

Author: Good catch with the "which"/"that" distinction! As for the capitalization, I'm all over the place too when it comes to the Kubernetes objects.

127.0.0.1:8080      	local_app                                                                	1.00  	HEALTHY

==> Listeners (2)
Name             	Address:Port        	Direction	Filter Chain Match             	Filters                                                                     	Last Updated
public_listener  	192.168.69.179:20000	INBOUND  	Any                            	* to local_app/                                                             	2022-08-08T12:02:22.261Z
outbound_listener	127.0.0.1:15001     	OUTBOUND 	10.100.134.173/32, 240.0.0.3/32	to client.default.dc1.internal.bc3815c2-1a0f-f3ff-a2e9-20d791f08d00.consul  	2022-07-18T15:31:03.246Z
                 	                    	         	10.100.31.2/32, 240.0.0.5/32   	to frontend.default.dc1.internal.bc3815c2-1a0f-f3ff-a2e9-20d791f08d00.consul
                 	                    	         	Any                            	to original-destination

==> Routes (1)
Name           	Destination Cluster	Last Updated
public_listener	local_app/         	2022-08-08T12:02:22.260Z

==> Secrets (0)
Name	Type	Last Updated

```

Get the Envoy configuration summary for all clusters with a fully qualified

> domain name which includes `"default"`. Display only clusters and listeners.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
domain name that includes `"default"`. Display only clusters and listeners.
```

			{
				"Name": "public_listener",
				"Address": "192.168.69.179:20000",
				"FilterChain": [
					{
						"Filters": [
							"* to local_app/"
						],
						"FilterChainMatch": "Any"
					}
				],
				"Direction": "INBOUND",
				"LastUpdated": "2022-08-08T12:02:22.261Z"
			},
			{
				"Name": "outbound_listener",
				"Address": "127.0.0.1:15001",
				"FilterChain": [
					{
						"Filters": [
							"to client.default.dc1.internal.bc3815c2-1a0f-f3ff-a2e9-20d791f08d00.consul"
						],
						"FilterChainMatch": "10.100.134.173/32, 240.0.0.3/32"
					},
					{
						"Filters": [
							"to frontend.default.dc1.internal.bc3815c2-1a0f-f3ff-a2e9-20d791f08d00.consul"
						],
						"FilterChainMatch": "10.100.31.2/32, 240.0.0.5/32"
					},
					{
						"Filters": [
							"to original-destination"
						],
						"FilterChainMatch": "Any"
					}
				],
				"Direction": "OUTBOUND",
				"LastUpdated": "2022-07-18T15:31:03.246Z"
			}
		],
		"routes": [
			{
				"Name": "public_listener",
				"DestinationCluster": "local_app/",
				"LastUpdated": "2022-08-08T12:02:22.260Z"
			}
		],
		"secrets": []
	}
}
```

Get the raw Envoy configuration dump and clusters information for the Envoy

> proxy running on the Pod `backend-658b679b45-d5xlb`. This command will return
> the raw configuration for each service as JSON. You can use the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
proxy running on the Pod `backend-658b679b45-d5xlb`. The example command returns
the raw configuration for each service as JSON. You can use the
```

[JQ command line tool](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/) to index into
the configuration for the service you want to inspect.

Refer to the [Envoy config dump documentation](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/api-v3/admin/v3/config_dump.proto)
for more information on the structure of the config dump.

The following output is truncated for brevity.

```shell-session
$ consul-k8s proxy read backend-658b679b45-d5xlb -o raw
{
  "backend-658b679b45-d5xlb": {
    "clusters": {
      // [-- snip 372 lines --] output from the Envoy admin interface's /clusters endpoint.
    },
    "config_dump": {
      // [-- snip 1816 lines --] output from the Envoy admin interface's /config_dump?include_eds endpoint.
    }
}
```

### `status`

> The `status` command provides an overall status summary of the Consul on Kubernetes installation. It also provides the config that was used to deploy Consul K8s and provides a quick glance at the health of both Consul servers and clients. This command does not take in any flags.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `status` command provides an overall status summary of the Consul on Kubernetes installation. It also provides the configuration that was used to deploy Consul K8s and information about the health of Consul servers and clients. This command does not take in any flags.
```

layout: docs
page_title: Consul K8s CLI Reference
description: >-

>   The Consul on Kubernetes CLI is a tool for installing and managing Consul on Kubernetes.

Reviewer 2: so it appears in the search results when someone searches `consul-k8s`

```suggestion
  The Consul on Kubernetes CLI (consul-k8s) is a tool for installing and managing Consul on Kubernetes.
```

---

# Consul on Kubernetes CLI Reference

The Consul on Kubernetes CLI, `consul-k8s`, is a tool for managing Consul

> without needing `Helm`, the [Consul CLI](/commands/index), or `kubectl`.

Reviewer 2: don't you need helm? it's just that the consul-k8s tool will replace the need to directly interact with `helm`

```suggestion
without needing Helm, the [Consul CLI](/commands/index), or `kubectl`.
```

Author: That is a good clarification.

> -> **Note**: For guidance on how to install `consul-k8s`, visit the
> [Installing the Consul K8s CLI](/docs/k8s/installation/install-cli) documentation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-> **Tip:** For guidance on how to install `consul-k8s`, visit the
[Installing the Consul K8s CLI](/docs/k8s/installation/install-cli) documentation.
```

This topic describes the commands and available options for using `consul-k8s`.

## Usage

The Consul on Kubernetes CLI uses the following syntax:

```shell-session
$ consul-k8s <COMMAND> <OPTIONS>
```

## Commands

You can use the following commands with `consul-k8s`.

  - [`install`](#install): Install Consul on Kubernetes.
  - [`proxy`](#proxy): Inspect Envoy proxies managed by Consul.
      - [`proxy list`](#proxy-list): List all Pods running proxies managed by Consul.
      - [`proxy read`](#proxy-read): Inspect the Envoy configuration for a given Pod.
  - [`status`](#status): Check the status of a Consul installation on Kubernetes.
  - [`uninstall`](#uninstall): Uninstall Consul deployment.
  - [`upgrade`](#upgrade): Upgrade Consul on Kubernetes from an existing installation.

>   - [`version`](#version): Print the version of the Consul on Kubernetes CLI.

Author: I added descriptions to the TOC so that readers can see what the commands do at a glance.

### `install`

> The `install` command installs Consul to your Kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `install` command installs Consul on your Kubernetes cluster.
```

```shell-session
$ consul-k8s install <OPTIONS>
```

The following options are available.

| Flag                          | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | Default                                 |
| ----------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------|

> | <nobr>`-auto-approve`</nobr>  | Boolean value that enables you to skip the installation confirmation prompt.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | `false`                                 |

Reviewer 2: @trujillo-adam 

this is an interesting html tag that we should consider adopting in our docs: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/nobr

Author: Though, maybe I should replace it with `<span style="white-space: nowrap;">`.

Reviewer: That is awesome! I didn't know about the `<nobr>` tag. The other thing I started using was wrapping a `<div style="">` around curly braces to set the width of a column, but I think this tag is better.

| <nobr>`-wait`</nobr>          | Boolean value that determines if Consul should wait for resources in the installation to be ready before exiting the command.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | `true`                                  |
| <nobr>`-verbose`, `-v`</nobr> | Boolean value that specifies whether to output verbose logs from the install command with the status of resources being installed.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | `false`                                 |

> | <nobr>`-help`, `-h`</nobr>    | Prints usage information for this option.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | none                                    |

Author: Here and in other tables, multiple `&nbsp;` were used to keep the markdown table from breaking the first column. I replaced this with `<nobr>` which is better for screen readers and takes up less space.

See [Global Options](#global-options) for additional commands that you can use when installing Consul on Kubernetes.

#### Example Commands

The following example command installs Consul in the `myNS` namespace according to the `secure` preset.

> ```shell-session

Reviewer 2: there's an extra space in before the `$` for the commands, can you remove them?

<img width="951" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/7556325/183508654-9faa0da6-d0a9-4f11-938a-b0c8acdfd22d.png">

Author: Done!

Consul in your Kubernetes Cluster.

- [`proxy list`](#proxy-list): List all Pods running proxies managed by Consul.
- [`proxy read`](#proxy-read): Inspect the Envoy configuration for a given Pod.

### `proxy list`

```shell-session
$ consul-k8s proxy list <OPTIONS>
```

| Flag                                 | Description                                           | Default                                                                                                                |
| ------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| <nobr>`-all-namespaces`, `-A`</nobr> | `Boolean` List pods in all Kubernetes namespaces.     | `false`                                                                                                                |
| <nobr>`-namespace`, `-n`</nobr>      | `String` The Kubernetes namespace to list proxies in. | Current [kubeconfig](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/organize-cluster-access-kubeconfig/) namespace. |

> See [Global Options](#global-options) for additional options that you can use

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Refer to the [Global Options](#global-options) for additional options that you can use
```

when installing Consul on Kubernetes.

> This command will list proxies alongside their `Type`. Types of proxies include

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This command will list proxies alongside their `Type`. Types of proxies include:
```

- `Sidecar`: these will be the majority of pods in the cluster. They run the
  proxy in a sidecar pattern to network the pod as a service in the mesh.

> - `API Gateway`: these pods run a proxy to manage connections with networks
>   outside of the Consul cluster. [Read more about API gateways](/docs/api-gateway).
> - `Ingress Gateway`: these pods run a proxy to manage ingress into the
>   Kubernetes cluster. [Read more about ingress gateways](/docs/k8s/connect/ingress-gateways).
> - `Terminating Gateway`: these pods run a proxy to control connections to
>   external services. [Read more about terminating gateways](/docs/k8s/connect/terminating-gateways).
> - `Mesh Gateway`: these pods run a proxy to manage connections between
>   Consul clusters connected using mesh federation. [Read more about Consul Mesh Federation](/docs/k8s/installation/multi-cluster/kubernetes).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `API Gateway`: these pods run a proxy to manage connections with networks
  outside of the Consul cluster. Read more about [API gateways](/docs/api-gateway).
- `Ingress Gateway`: these pods run a proxy to manage ingress into the
  Kubernetes cluster. Read more about [ingress gateways](/docs/k8s/connect/ingress-gateways).
- `Terminating Gateway`: these pods run a proxy to control connections to
  external services. Read more about [terminating gateways](/docs/k8s/connect/terminating-gateways).
- `Mesh Gateway`: these pods run a proxy to manage connections between
  Consul clusters connected using mesh federation. Read more about [Consul Mesh Federation](/docs/k8s/installation/multi-cluster/kubernetes).
```

#### Example Commands

Display all pods in the current Kubernetes namespace which run proxies managed
by Consul.

```shell-session
$ consul-k8s proxy list

> ```
> 
> ```

Reviewer 2: you can combine these

```suggestion
```

Author: Nice! I did that throughout.

Namespace: default

Name                     	Type
backend-658b679b45-d5xlb 	Sidecar
client-767ccfc8f9-6f6gx  	Sidecar
client-767ccfc8f9-f8nsn  	Sidecar
client-767ccfc8f9-ggrtx  	Sidecar
frontend-676564547c-v2mfq	Sidecar
```

Display all pods in the `consul` Kubernetes namespace which run proxies managed
by Consul.

```shell-session
$ consul-k8s proxy list -n consul

> ```
> 
> ```

Reviewer 2: you can include outputs in the codeblocks, the copy will only copy the first line

```suggestion
```

Namespace: consul

Name                                   	Type
consul-ingress-gateway-6fb5544485-br6fl	Ingress Gateway
consul-ingress-gateway-6fb5544485-m54sp	Ingress Gateway
```

Display all pods across all namespaces which run proxies managed by Consul.

```shell-session
$ consul-k8s proxy list -A

> ```
> 
> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

| <nobr>`-address`</nobr>         | `String` Filter clusters, endpoints, and listeners output to only those with endpoint addresses which contain the given value. | `""`                                                                                                                   |
| <nobr>`-fqdn`</nobr>            | `String` Filter cluster output to only clusters with a fully qualified domain name which contains the given value.             | `""`                                                                                                                   |
| <nobr>`-port`</nobr>            | `Int` Filter endpoints output to only endpoints with the given port number.                                                    | `-1` which does not filter by port                                                                                     |

#### Example commands

Get the configuration summary for the Envoy proxy running on the Pod
`backend-658b679b45-d5xlb`.

```shell-session
$ consul-k8s proxy read backend-658b679b45-d5xlb

> ```
> 
> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

public_listener  	192.168.69.179:20000	INBOUND  	Any                            	* to local_app/                                                             	2022-08-08T12:02:22.261Z
outbound_listener	127.0.0.1:15001     	OUTBOUND 	10.100.134.173/32, 240.0.0.3/32	to client.default.dc1.internal.bc3815c2-1a0f-f3ff-a2e9-20d791f08d00.consul  	2022-07-18T15:31:03.246Z
                 	                    	         	10.100.31.2/32, 240.0.0.5/32   	to frontend.default.dc1.internal.bc3815c2-1a0f-f3ff-a2e9-20d791f08d00.consul
                 	                    	         	Any                            	to original-destination

==> Routes (1)
Name           	Destination Cluster	Last Updated
public_listener	local_app/         	2022-08-08T12:02:22.260Z

==> Secrets (0)
Name	Type	Last Updated

```

Get the Envoy configuration summary for all clusters with a fully qualified
domain name which includes `"default"`. Display only clusters and listeners.

```shell-session
$ consul-k8s proxy read backend-658b679b45-d5xlb -fqdn default -clusters -listeners

> ```
> 
> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

==> Listeners (2)
Name             	Address:Port        	Direction	Filter Chain Match             	Filters                                                                     	Last Updated
public_listener  	192.168.69.179:20000	INBOUND  	Any                            	* to local_app/                                                             	2022-08-08T12:02:22.261Z
outbound_listener	127.0.0.1:15001     	OUTBOUND 	10.100.134.173/32, 240.0.0.3/32	to client.default.dc1.internal.bc3815c2-1a0f-f3ff-a2e9-20d791f08d00.consul  	2022-07-18T15:31:03.246Z
                 	                    	         	10.100.31.2/32, 240.0.0.5/32   	to frontend.default.dc1.internal.bc3815c2-1a0f-f3ff-a2e9-20d791f08d00.consul
                 	                    	         	Any                            	to original-destination

```

Get the Envoy configuration summary in a JSON format. Note that this is not the
same as the raw configuration dump from the admin API. This information is the
same as what is displayed in the table output above, but in a JSON format.

```shell-session
$ consul-k8s proxy read backend-658b679b45-d5xlb -o json

> ```
> 
> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

				"Weight": 1,
				"Status": "HEALTHY"
			}
		],
		"listeners": [
			{
				"Name": "public_listener",
				"Address": "192.168.69.179:20000",
				"FilterChain": [
					{
						"Filters": [
							"* to local_app/"
						],
						"FilterChainMatch": "Any"
					}
				],
				"Direction": "INBOUND",
				"LastUpdated": "2022-08-08T12:02:22.261Z"
			},
			{
				"Name": "outbound_listener",
				"Address": "127.0.0.1:15001",
				"FilterChain": [
					{
						"Filters": [
							"to client.default.dc1.internal.bc3815c2-1a0f-f3ff-a2e9-20d791f08d00.consul"
						],
						"FilterChainMatch": "10.100.134.173/32, 240.0.0.3/32"
					},
					{
						"Filters": [
							"to frontend.default.dc1.internal.bc3815c2-1a0f-f3ff-a2e9-20d791f08d00.consul"
						],
						"FilterChainMatch": "10.100.31.2/32, 240.0.0.5/32"
					},
					{
						"Filters": [
							"to original-destination"
						],
						"FilterChainMatch": "Any"
					}
				],
				"Direction": "OUTBOUND",
				"LastUpdated": "2022-07-18T15:31:03.246Z"
			}
		],
		"routes": [
			{
				"Name": "public_listener",
				"DestinationCluster": "local_app/",
				"LastUpdated": "2022-08-08T12:02:22.260Z"
			}
		],
		"secrets": []
	}
}
```

> Get the raw Envoy configuration dump and clusters information for the Envoy
> proxy running on the Pod `backend-658b679b45-d5xlb`. The raw configuration will
> be output for each service as a JSON map. The
> [JQ command line tool](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/) can be used to index into
> the configuration for the service you want to inspect.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Get the raw Envoy configuration dump and clusters information for the Envoy
proxy running on the Pod `backend-658b679b45-d5xlb`. This command will return 
the raw configuration for each service as a JSON Map. You can use the 
[JQ command line tool](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/) to index into
the configuration for the service you want to inspect.
```

> See the [Envoy config dump documentation](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/api-v3/admin/v3/config_dump.proto)
> for more information on the structure of the config dump.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Refer to the [Envoy config dump documentation](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/api-v3/admin/v3/config_dump.proto)
for more information on the structure of the config dump.

The following output is truncated for brevity.
```

```shell-session
$ consul-k8s proxy read backend-658b679b45-d5xlb -o raw

> ```
> 
> The output is truncated here for brevity. It follows the format below:
> 
> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
